---
title: 'New Year, New Me'
date: 2026-01-10
permalink: /posts/2026/01/new-year/
tags:
  - first post
  - meta
---

# Trajectory
With the arrival of the arbitrarily chosen day set aside by our society as *the first of the year* comes the ritualistic resolutions meant to change our behavior. One such resolution of mine was to revive **Computational Catharsis** as a sandbox for my thoughts. Here goes nothing.

Beyond that simple goal (coupled with a minimal habit of the [James Clear](https://jamesclear.com/) variety) and a few others, I was thinking more abstractly about who I am, who I want to become, and what it takes to bridge the gap between the two. My mind kept gravitating towards the idea of a *trajectory*. The fundamental idea behind calculus is that dynamics of a system are best understood through a study of rates of change. If I want to predict or modify my own personal trajectory, perhaps I need to take a personal derivative of sorts: I propose that the derivative of who I am with respect to time is who I am becoming--the bridge to who I want to become. This state of being changes smoothly, hence the inevitable failure of overly ambitious goals.


# Why We Remember
I finished Charan Ranganath's debut pop-science book, and was quite pleased with it. Beyond reinforcing my habit of regularly discounting my own recollections as "false memories", Ranganath provided a medium for me to marvel at the remarkable computational abilities of our biological hardware. I found it similar in vibe and scientific rigor to Matthew Walker's *Why We Sleep*, but maybe not as life changing for the simple reason that sleep studies inform behavior modification more naturally than memory studies. Embarrassingly, my biggest takeaway might be the brief introduction to the idea of [cryptomnesia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryptomnesia), something I've needed a word for since hearing the similarities between the openings of Leon Bridges' *Coming Home* and Taylor Swift's *Lover*.


# Miscellanea
Other curiosities I spent time with this past week:
- [A LessWrong disciple frets about LLMs inventing their own languages for reasoning](https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/gpyqWzWYADWmLYLeX/how-ai-is-learning-to-think-in-secret)
- [Dan Wang continues the Silicon Valley vs China discussion](https://danwang.co/2025-letter/)
- [Garnet Chan and co. tackle FeMoCo](https://arxiv.org/abs/2601.04621v1)